Missouri St._Louis 
1 -1 -1 -1 15
In 1987 , about eight years before he retired , he and his wife , Lois , 73 , bought an 85-acre farm 60 miles west of St._Louis in Missouri 's wine country . 
The ongoing pitch to the rest of Missouri is that St._Louis 's diversity is exactly what makes the city exciting , said James A. Cloar , the president and chief executive of the Downtown St._Louis Partnership , a civic development group . ''
Gov. Matt_Blunt of Missouri declared a state of emergency and sent about 300 National Guard troops to help local officials in and around St._Louis deal with the heat and the aftermath of the storm . 
Tom Eagleton played that role in St._Louis , '' Ganis said , referring to the former Missouri senator who headed a civic-business group called F.A.N.S. '' He coalesced the opponents and supporters in the business and political communities . 
Hundreds of thousands of homes and businesses in the greater St._Louis area were without electricity on Thursday in the wake of a powerful thunderstorm that tore through Missouri and Illinois and left residents to cope with ripped roofs , fallen trees and a withering heat wave . 
Also named in the Missouri suit , which seeks monetary penalties from the defendants , is the apparent operator of the donation sites , Frank Weltner , a St._Louis resident and radio talk show personality who operates a Web site called JewWatch.com . 
Born in St._Louis , Missouri , in 1921 . 
An article on June 3 about a trip to St._Louis by President Bush to promote his Social Security policies and to attend a re-election fund-raiser for Senator Jim_Talent , Republican of Missouri , referred incorrectly to a previous election for that Senate seat . 
Correction : June 30 , 2005 , Thursday An article on June 3 about a trip to St._Louis by President Bush to promote his Social Security policies and to attend a re-election fund-raiser for Senator Jim_Talent , Republican of Missouri , referred incorrectly to a previous election for that Senate seat . 
He grew up in Missouri watching Vince_Coleman and Ozzie_Smith use their legs to win games for St._Louis , and decided to model his game after theirs . 
Funeral services and interment of ashes to be held in St._Louis , Missouri on August 8 , 2005 . 
In the 1870 's , mining camps boomed , and so did Fort_Benton , the last stop for steamboats coming up the Missouri from St._Louis -LRB- farther on , the water was navigable only for shallower craft like the small riverboats used by Lewis and Clark -RRB- . 
He was born in St._Louis , Missouri and was educated at St._Louis University , New_York_University and the American Institute of Banking . 
He cites as a classic example the breathless but belated revelations of the mental history of George_McGovern 's putative running mate , the Missouri Senator Thomas Eagleton -- a story that had long been known by '' half of the political journalists in St._Louis and at least a dozen in the Washington press corps . '' 
Missouri , and St._Louis in particular , were also hard hit , with thunderstorms adding to the problems . 
Iraq Abu_Ghraib 
1 -1 -1 -1 200
'60 Minutes II ' Wins Major Award One of the George_Foster_Peabody Awards for excellence in electronic media went to '' 60 Minutes II '' for an exclusive , reported by Dan_Rather , left , and produced by Mary Mapes , about abuses at the Abu_Ghraib prison in Iraq . 
One of the recommendations of Maj. Gen. Antonio Taguba , who investigated the scandal at Abu_Ghraib , was that a team be sent to Iraq to teach some of the soldiers how to run prisons . 
It also found to be '' unsubstantiated '' allegations against Maj. Gen. Barbara G. Fast , the former chief intelligence officer in Iraq who oversaw the interrogation center at Abu_Ghraib , and Col. Marc_Warren , the command 's top legal officer . 
Maj. Gen. Geoffrey D. Miller , the former commander at the detention center at Guantánamo_Bay , Cuba , who also helped set up the interrogation operation at Abu_Ghraib prison in Iraq , is declining to testify further about harsh interrogation practices and will retire from the service , Army officials said Thursday . 
Among those implicated in the killings at Bagram were members of Company A of the 519th Military Intelligence Battalion , from Fort_Bragg , N.C. . The battalion went on to Iraq , where some members established the interrogation unit at Abu_Ghraib and have been implicated in some abuses there . 
They trace their alliance on military matters to last year 's revelations of detainee abuse at the Abu_Ghraib prison in Iraq . 
FINALISTS -- Steve Suo and Erin Hoover Barnett of The Oregonian , Portland , for their reports on the failure to curtail the growing illicit use of methamphetamines ; and The_Washington_Post staff for its chronicle of abuses by American soldiers at Abu_Ghraib prison in Iraq . 
Sergeant Smith , who was convicted Tuesday for abusing detainees in Iraq with his black Belgian shepherd , had said he was merely following interrogation procedures approved by the chief intelligence officer at Abu_Ghraib , Col. Thomas M. Pappas . 
A14 Iraq Photos ' Release Opposed Senior Pentagon officials opposed the release of photographs and videotapes of the abuse of detainees at Abu_Ghraib prison in Iraq , arguing they would incite public opinion in the Muslim world and put the lives of American soldiers at risk . 
Those practices were not included in the manual in use when most of the abuses occurred at Abu_Ghraib in Iraq in the fall of 2003 , but neither were they specifically banned . 
Ali Mohammed , who spent eight years in the Abu_Ghraib prison in Saddam_Hussein 's Iraq , called the owner of the grocery store where he is a stock clerk before sunup on Friday to say he was putting on his best suit , the charcoal pinstripe he usually saves for weddings . 
Mr. Bremer deals with some issues like prisoner abuse at Abu_Ghraib in an extremely cursory fashion , while explicating others , like the debate over the timetable for sovereignty , in considerable detail , and he cavalierly dismisses the State Department 's Future of Iraq Project , which critics say was sidelined because of tensions with the Pentagon , as not offering a practical plan for postwar Iraq . 
1 Role-Playing to Train Guards In response to the prisoner-abuse scandal at Abu_Ghraib , the Army is taking lessons learned from combat zones to train its security forces for guard duty at American detention centers in Iraq , Afghanistan and Guantánamo_Bay , Cuba . 
The United_States succeeded in 2002 and 2003 in gaining immunity for its troops from prosecution by the international court , but last June it was forced to withdraw a resolution to extend the exemption another year after it ran into widespread opposition because of the Abu_Ghraib prison scandal in Iraq . 
The rebel attacks included a suicide car bombing at an Iraqi-manned checkpoint in Abu_Ghraib , the district best known for the prison that holds many of the 14,000 insurgency suspects held in American custody across Iraq . 
The administration has said almost nothing about the C.I.A. operation to imprison and question terror suspects designated as high-value detainees , even as it has expressed disgust about abuses at the Abu_Ghraib prison in Iraq . 
Throughout Iraq on Saturday , insurgents continued an increased tempo of attacks on Iraqi and American forces with strikes including a bombing near Abu_Ghraib prison that Iraqi police said killed 9 Iraqi soldiers and wounded 20 , news agencies reported . 
In interviews and statements to investigators , soldiers who served at Bagram have at times echoed the defenses offered unsuccessfully by the soldiers charged with abuses at the Abu_Ghraib prison in Iraq , saying they were acting on instructions from military intelligence personnel or on the authority of superior officers . 
One of the investigations that remains open involves the November 2003 death of Manadel al-Jamadi , who died at Abu_Ghraib after a brutal interrogation in one of the most widely publicized abuse cases in Iraq . 
Mr. Hersh is a well-known journalist credited with uncovering major stories including the My_Lai massacre in Vietnam in 1969 and details of prisoner abuse at Abu_Ghraib in Iraq . 
The panel suggested that those executives had been cowed , to some extent , by the track record and celebrity of Mr. Rather and Ms. Mapes , who collaborated earlier in the year on a report that first broadcast photographs of abuse at Abu_Ghraib prison in Iraq . 
Mr. Negroponte acknowledged what he called '' appalling abuses '' committed by American military personnel at Abu_Ghraib prison in Iraq , but he said he was less familiar with abuses committed elsewhere , including those being reviewed by a C.I.A. internal investigator . 
The Army career of Lt. Gen. Ricardo S. Sanchez , the American commander in Iraq during the Abu_Ghraib prisoner abuse scandal , is coming to an end . 
Yet I stood next to General Mattis at Abu_Ghraib prison in Iraq -- several weeks before the abuse scandal broke -- as he spoke in the same roughhewn manner , this time warning Marine grunts against even the appearance of mistreating prisoners . 
Interrogators at Abu_Ghraib prison in Iraq ordered military police to '' soften up '' detainees , leading to some soldiers ' photographing prisoners in sexually humiliating positions , several testified in a military court . 
After a week in which the American military death toll in Iraq passed 2,500 and in which an Iraqi official spoke of a possible amnesty offer to insurgents who killed some of those Americans -- an offer we can safely predict Washington will never allow -- the real tragedy of Iraq lies not just in the thousands of Iraqi and American lives lost or the shame of Abu_Ghraib or Haditha . 
Testifying at the court-martial of a dog handler accused of abusing prisoners at the Abu_Ghraib prison in Iraq , Maj. Gen. Geoffrey D. Miller said Wednesday that he never suggested that dogs be used to intimidate prisoners during interrogations in Iraq . 
A1 Ruling on Abu_Ghraib Images A federal judge in Manhattan ruled that the Defense Department must release dozens of previously withheld photographs and videotapes that show abuse of prisoners at Abu_Ghraib prison in Iraq . 
Turkey announced Wednesday that it had requested that Iraq extradite two Turkish Islamists suspected of taking part in a 2003 terrorist attack in Istanbul and being held in Abu_Ghraib prison . 
In this context , Guantánamo_Bay , Abu_Ghraib and the situation in Iraq could hardly be called successes . 
officials responsible for running military prisons in Iraq and Afghanistan : Lt. Gen. Ricardo S. Sanchez , the former top commander in Iraq ; Col. Thomas M. Pappas , who was the top military intelligence officer at Abu_Ghraib , the American-run prison in Iraq ; and a former brigadier general , Col. Janis L. Karpinski , who before her demotion to colonel was the military police commander at Abu_Ghraib . 
Detainee 200343 was among thousands of people who have been held and released by the American military in Iraq , and his account of his ordeal has provided one of the few detailed views of the Pentagon 's detention operations since the abuse scandals at Abu_Ghraib . 
Mr. Shojaei said more than 1,000 pictures from 61 countries had been submitted , proving that '' there is a new Holocaust in Guantánamo_Bay , Abu_Ghraib , Palestine , Iraq and Afghanistan . '' 
General Gardner said that he was painfully aware of the legacy of Abu_Ghraib , but insisted that conditions at the American-run prisons in Iraq had improved strikingly . '' 
Private contractors have acted with impunity in Iraq -- some of them are alleged to have been involved with the torture at Abu_Ghraib . 
A12 NATIONAL A16-25 Prison Abuse Involved Several Military Branches Thousands of pages of military reports and documents released under the Freedom of Information Act to the American_Civil_Liberties_Union have indicated that abuse like that at Abu_Ghraib involved multiple branches of the service in Afghanistan , Iraq and Guantánamo_Bay and lasted much long than initially indicated . 
The independent panel that investigated the Abu_Ghraib scandal in 2004 , headed by former Defense Secretary James_R._Schlesinger , found that General Sanchez had been derelict in overseeing detention in Iraq . 
INTERNATIONAL A3-8 Victim in Torture Photos Tells of Prison Conditions Ali Shalal Qaissi , who two years ago was an anonymous prisoner at Abu_Ghraib in Iraq , tells of his six-month stay there and the story behind the scandalous picture of him standing hooded atop a cardboard box and attached to electrical wires . 
St._Martin 's Press announced this week that it had acquired the rights to a memoir by Ms. Mapes , who also produced the CBS_News report last year that broke the news of abuses at the Abu_Ghraib prison in Iraq . 
Organizers said the treatment of prisoners at Abu_Ghraib prison in Iraq and the Israeli-Palestinian conflict would be among subjects addressed at the 59th festival , which will present 26,895 performances of some 800 shows from Aug. 7 through 29 . '' 
A1 Abuse Charges Set for Colonel The Army plans to charge Lt. Col. Steven L. Jordan , the former head of the interrogation center at Abu_Ghraib prison in Iraq , with dereliction of duty , lying to investigators and conduct unbecoming an officer , his lawyer said . 
However , the report concluded that none of their backgrounds would have disqualified them from working in Iraq and that none of them had any involvement in the abuses at Abu_Ghraib prison in Baghdad . 
They have said the older man was the driving force behind the plot and inflamed Mr. Siraj with pictures , including some of American soldiers abusing prisoners at the Abu_Ghraib prison in Iraq . 
When Mr. Delgado returned to Florida last year from a tour of Iraq that included a traumatic stint with a military police unit at Abu_Ghraib prison , he thought he could pretty easily resume the ordinary life of a college student and leave his troubling war experiences behind . 
It was reported yesterday that Lt. Gen. Ricardo S. Sanchez , the former American commander in Iraq during the Abu_Ghraib scandal , is being considered for promotion . 
PAGE A24 Dogs , Abuse and Abu_Ghraib Testifying at the court-martial of a dog-handler accused of abusing prisoners at the Abu_Ghraib prison in Iraq , Maj. Gen. Geoffrey D. Miller said he never suggested that dogs be used to intimidate prisoners during interrogations in Iraq . 
The issue has taken on symbolic importance in Afghanistan , just as the Abu_Ghraib prison has in Iraq . 
Mr. Mora prepared the 22-page memorandum for a Defense Department review of interrogation operations that was conducted by Vice Adm. Albert T. Church III , after the scandal involving treatment of prisoners at the Abu_Ghraib prison in Iraq . 
For American officials in Iraq , still laboring under the shadow of the Abu_Ghraib prisoner abuse scandal and other allegations of mistreatment of prisoners , the new allegations came at a particularly inopportune moment . 
Molly Bingham is one of the five , and she is the photographer who was arrested at the start of Iraq war by Saddam_Hussein 's secret police and held for seven days in Abu_Ghraib . 
A Navy Seal lieutenant was acquitted Friday on charges that he had struck a detainee in Iraq in 2003 and failed to restrain his men from hitting the prisoner , who later died at Abu_Ghraib prison . 
Eventually , these practices '' migrated , '' in the words of the Schlesinger report , to Abu_Ghraib prison in Iraq , where for a time last spring the marvel of digital technology allowed Americans to see what their soldiers were doing to prisoners in their name . 
One of the biggest tragedies of the Bush administration 's gross mishandling of the occupation of Iraq -- the lack of basic security and jobs , the shame and horror of Abu_Ghraib , the thousands of civilian deaths -- is that the rest of Iraq will likely not take the time to mourn the victims of Anfal . 
On June 25 , 2004 , nearly two months after the disclosure of the abuses at Abu_Ghraib , an F.B.I. agent in Iraq sent an e-mail message to his superiors in Washington , warning that a detainee captured by Task Force 6-26 had suspicious burn marks on his body . 
Similar pledges have been made by other detainees released since Iraq resumed sovereignty after the formal period of American occupation ended two years ago , including a group of nearly 1,000 men who were freed from Abu_Ghraib last August . 
He said Mr. Eldawoody , posing as a father figure and religious guide , had cajoled and inflamed the younger man , in part by showing him images of abuses , some of them at Abu_Ghraib prison in Iraq . 
This is important , they argue , to repair a national reputation that has been damaged internationally by revelations of abuse at Guantánamo_Bay and at Abu_Ghraib prison in Iraq , and to set a model for how other countries might try American troops . 
The prison abuse scandal at Abu_Ghraib led to a number of changes in the American detainee system in Iraq . 
Such changes have been under consideration since the abuses at Abu_Ghraib prison were disclosed in April 2004 , and reflect continuing problems with abuses by troops in Afghanistan and Iraq since then . 
Last spring , the House and Senate Armed Services Committees held hearings into the abuses at Abu_Ghraib prison in Iraq . 
: that of Manadel al-Jamadi , for instance , whose body was wrapped in plastic and packed in ice when it was carried out of an Abu_Ghraib prison shower room a year and a half ago , where he 'd been handcuffed to a wall ; or Abed Hamed Mowhoush , who , elsewhere in Iraq , appears to have been thrust headfirst into a sleeping bag , manhandled there and then , finally , suffocated . 
But the White_House disavowed that opinion in the summer of 2004 , after the abuses at Abu_Ghraib prison in Iraq and the contents of the Justice Department memorandum came to light . 
Prosecutors have contended that Mr. Siraj and Mr. Elshafay , driven by anger over American foreign policy in the Middle_East , the war in Iraq and abuse by American soldiers of Iraqi prisoners at Abu_Ghraib , plotted to blow up the subway station . 
General Miller was deeply involved in the handling of detainees , first at Guantánamo , where he earned credit for improving interrogation techniques and for the treatment of prisoners , and later in Iraq , where he was sent in August 2003 to suggest ways to improve interrogations immediately before the worst abuses at Abu_Ghraib prison . 
And that is precisely what happened at Abu_Ghraib after the general who organized the abuse of prisoners at Guantánamo went to Iraq to toughen up the interrogation of prisoners there . 
About 7,100 detainees are still held : 5,000 in Camp Bucca in southern Iraq and 2,100 at Abu_Ghraib prison west of Baghdad . 
The independent panel investigating the Abu_Ghraib scandal , headed by former Defense Secretary James_R._Schlesinger , found last August that General Sanchez 's Iraq headquarters '' was never fully resourced to meet the size and complexity of its mission , '' and at one time had only 495 of the 1,400 people deemed necessary to carry out the effort it was assigned . 
On Tuesday at New_York_University , The New_York Review of Books sponsored a panel on Iraq , which resulted in a spirited debate over American intervention , between Mark_Danner , the American author of '' Torture and Truth : America , Abu_Ghraib and the War on Terror , '' and the Iraqi-born writer Kanan_Makiya , a professor at Brandeis and the author of '' The Republic of Fear : The Politics of Modern Iraq . '' 
A1 A military jury convicted a soldier on all but one of the seven charges she faced for her role in the abuse of inmates at the Abu_Ghraib prison in Iraq . 
Abuses at the Abu_Ghraib prison in Iraq have focused Congressional and public scrutiny on the possibility that the agency engaged in excessive force in interrogations . 
Mr. Delgado said that when his unit was first assigned to Abu_Ghraib , he believed , like most of his fellow soldiers , that the prisoners were among the most dangerous individuals in Iraq . 
Those practices were not included in the manual in use when the bulk of the abuses occurred at Abu_Ghraib in Iraq in the fall of 2003 , but neither were they specifically banned . 
Mr. Dodd and Mr. Kerry also focused on whether the abuses at Abu_Ghraib prison in Iraq and elsewhere constituted torture or violations of international law , and on the damage that disclosures about those techniques had done to American standing in the world . 
At Abu_Ghraib in Iraq , the record was even worse : two-thirds of the detainees were eventually said to have been innocent of terrorist links . 
The team was set up in the aftermath of the uproar over abuses at the Abu_Ghraib prison in Iraq ; it was to investigate accusations that detainees had been mistreated by civilian personnel . 
Accusing the United_States of torturing terrorist suspects in Guantánamo_Bay and Abu_Ghraib , Mr. Pinter called the invasion of Iraq -- for which he said Britain was also responsible -- '' a bandit act , an act of blatant state terrorism , demonstrating absolute contempt for the concept of international law . '' 
The same army that 's scouring Iraq for insurgents and terrorists was apparently unaware of the arrest record of the woman assigned to such a sensitive position at Abu_Ghraib . 
Legal experts agree that the White_House 's announcement that it would give Article Three rights to detainees puts future cases of detainee abuse , like those at the Abu_Ghraib prison in Iraq in 2004 , into the category of war crimes . 
At another vigil in Union Square in New_York , about 300 supporters of Ms. Sheehan gathered , holding placards critical of Mr. Bush and the Iraq war , and one protester dressed like a hooded prisoner in the infamous photos from the Abu_Ghraib prison . 
Mr. Rather , who took the stage at the Waldorf-Astoria to sustained applause , accepted the award for the CBS program '' 60 Minutes II : Abuse at Abu_Ghraib , '' which broke the news of the abuses at Abu_Ghraib prison in Iraq . 
They acknowledged that the furor had been fed by two years of disclosures about American treatment of detainees at Guantánamo_Bay , Cuba , at Abu_Ghraib prison in Iraq , and in Afghanistan . 
The United_States began holding Muslims without charge at Guantánamo_Bay , Cuba ; it invaded Iraq and abused prisoners at Abu_Ghraib . 
The killings , first reported in March by Time magazine , represent the most serious allegations of military misconduct in Iraq since reports in 2004 that soldiers had abused prisoners at the American-run military prison at Abu_Ghraib . 
The five-month review was the latest of a series of examinations of the military begun after the abuses at Abu_Ghraib prison in Iraq became known . 
Sundance will again confront the Iraq war : In '' Ghosts of Abu_Ghraib '' Rory_Kennedy , the producer of '' American Hollow , '' a 1999 Sundance film , draws on the accounts of perpetrators , victims and witnesses of the notorious prison-abuse scandal . 
These pictures will inevitably open old wounds and be part of drawing parallels with Abu_Ghraib , '' said Menzies Campbell , the deputy leader of the opposition Liberal Democrats , who oppose the Iraq war . 
The report , released May 25 , placed the United_States at the heart of its list of human rights offenders , citing indefinite detentions of prisoners at Guantánamo_Bay , prisoner abuse at Abu_Ghraib in Iraq and secret renditions of prisoners to countries that practice torture . 
the hypothermia death of the prisoner in Afghanistan in November 2002 at a site nominally under Afghan control , in a case first reported by The_Washington_Post ; the death of Manadel al-Jamadi on Nov. 24 , 2003 , at Abu_Ghraib prison in Iraq , where he had been taken after his capture by members of the Navy Seals , but was imprisoned in C.I.A. custody ; and the asphyxiation of Maj. Gen. Abed Hamed Mowhoush . 
Two senior defense officials said on Wednesday that the most striking warning signs were reports from the International Committee of the Red_Cross to American military officials in Iraq of serious mistreatment of the prisoners , especially a briefing to officials at Abu_Ghraib prison in October 2003 . 
A4 General in Abuse Case to Retire Maj. Gen. Geoffrey D. Miller , a former commander at the detention center in Guantánamo_Bay , Cuba , who also set up interrogation operations at Abu_Ghraib prison in Iraq , has declined to testify further about interrogation practices and will retire , Army officials said . 
Pentagon officials had initially settled on a different commander for Iraq , but the political fallout from the Abu_Ghraib prisoner abuse scandal scuttled that plan , and General Casey soon found himself on a plane to Baghdad . 
With the conviction on Tuesday of an Army dog handler , the military has now tried and found guilty another low-ranking soldier in connection with the pattern of abuses that first surfaced two years ago at Abu_Ghraib prison in Iraq . 
Mr. Djerejian said recently that 80 percent of the hostility derived from American policies , especially on Israel , Iraq , the treatment of Iraqi prisoners by Americans at Abu_Ghraib prison and the detention of people captured by the Americans at Guantánamo_Bay , Cuba . '' 
Classified parts of a report by the three Army generals on the abuses at Abu_Ghraib said some of the interrogation practices General Sanchez approved for use in Iraq exceeded those advocated in a standard Army field manual and were intended to be limited to captives held in Guantánamo_Bay and Afghanistan . '' 
That changed , he said , after he heard Mr. Rumsfeld testify to Congress after the Abu_Ghraib abuses became public that the Conventions did apply in Iraq . 
The most recent evidence of this sad state of affairs came this week in an article in The_Times by Eric_Schmitt and Thom Shanker , who reported that the Pentagon believes the Abu_Ghraib scandal has receded enough in the public 's mind that Mr. Rumsfeld is considering a promotion for Lt. Gen. Ricardo Sanchez , who was commander of American forces in Iraq at the time of the disaster . 
Today , after the W.M.D. fiasco in Iraq , the Abu_Ghraib abuses , the National Security Agency wiretapping and more , the American people no longer have faith that this administration will not abuse the powers provided in the Patriot Act . 
Its distributors say that the war in Iraq has made the Vietnam-era film as powerful as when it was new , and its filmmakers are calling it eerily prescient of national embarrassments like the torture at Abu_Ghraib . 
But Colonel Pappas , testifying under a grant of immunity , said the Army lacked clear rules for using dogs in interrogations at Abu_Ghraib , and he took the blame for mistakenly authorizing the use of muzzled dogs inside interrogation booths when only the top commander in Iraq could have approved that step . 
Mr. Gonzales has clearly demonstrated through well-reasoned arguments and citations to relevant Geneva treaty passages that he is not , and never was , the architect of the torture that occurred at the Abu_Ghraib prison in Iraq , nor is he the '' public face '' for the policies that appear to have condoned that torture , however indirectly . 
But the officials have confirmed that the agency had asked the Justice Department to review at least one other case , from Abu_Ghraib prison in Iraq in November 2003 , to determine if a C.I.A. officer and interpreter should face prosecution . 
The letter of reprimand from Maj. Gen. Bennie E. Williams , commander of the 21st Theater Support Command in Germany , effectively ends the career of Colonel Pappas , whose leadership at the prison has been criticized by several investigations into the abuses at Abu_Ghraib and other detention sites in Iraq . 
In November 2003 , after several months in Nasiriya in southern Iraq , the 320th was redeployed to Abu_Ghraib . 
No one was held responsible for the intelligence failures of 9\/11 ; no one was held responsible for the lack of planning in postwar Iraq ; and no one high up was held responsible for Abu_Ghraib . 
Mr. Ushakov did not offer specifics , but Bush administration officials suggested that he was referring to such matters as the detention of prisoners at Abu_Ghraib in Iraq and Guantánamo_Bay , Cuba , and the 2000 presidential election , in which the Supreme Court ruled in favor of Mr. Bush in a recount dispute , effectively securing his victory . 
So indiscriminate and intemperate are Mr. Berman 's complaints that they undermine the valid points he wants to make about the role the Iraq war has played in fomenting further terrorism , the moral implications of torture at Abu_Ghraib and the dangers of a ballooning trade deficit and an overextended military . 
To some , the grave misdeeds at Abu_Ghraib , where the three soldiers worked for six months in 2003 , have become a twisted symbol of the American military occupation of Iraq . 
It comes one week before the Senate Judiciary Committee is set to question Alberto R. Gonzales , the White_House counsel and nominee for attorney general , about his role in formulating legal policies that critics have said led to abuses at Abu_Ghraib prison in Iraq and at Guantánamo_Bay , Cuba . 
Drawing largely on news reports and publicly available military reviews , the group , Human Rights Watch , concluded that there was '' overwhelming evidence that U.S. mistreatment and torture of Muslim prisoners took place not merely at Abu_Ghraib , but at facilities throughout Afghanistan and Iraq as well as at Guantánamo and at ` secret locations ' around the world in violation of the Geneva Convention and the laws against torture . '' 
From there the film turns to the horrid postwar living conditions in Iraq and eventually to the Abu_Ghraib prison scandal , illustrated by the appalling photographs that were widely shown last year . 
More important , all the experts said that anti-Americanism in Muslim countries is rooted in real anger over real policies : America 's unwavering support for Israel , the war in Iraq , torture at Abu_Ghraib and support for corrupt but pro-American regimes . '' 
American abuses at Abu_Ghraib and other detention centers in Iraq and Afghanistan show that first-world armies are not immune to the seductions of torture . 
Human rights groups , however , said Mr. Gonzales should be held accountable for legal policies that they say opened the way for the physical abuse of prisoners at Abu_Ghraib prison in Iraq and others in American custody . 
American commanders in Iraq are expressing grave concerns that the overcrowded Abu_Ghraib prison has become a breeding ground for extremist leaders and a school for terrorist foot soldiers . 
The mistreatment of prisoners at the Abu_Ghraib prison in Iraq as well as the ongoing debate over the imprisonment of terror suspects at Guantánamo , have raised questions among Europeans and human rights organizations about the treatment of suspects held in the C.I.A. facilities , where no one can visit them or check on their treatment . 
Only one of the deaths occurred at the Abu_Ghraib prison in Iraq , officials said , showing how broadly the most violent abuses extended beyond those prison walls and contradicting early impressions that the wrongdoing was confined to a handful of members of the military police on the prison 's night shift . 
Only one of the deaths occurred at the Abu_Ghraib prison in Iraq , reported Jehl and Schmitt -- '' showing how broadly the most violent abuses extended beyond those prison walls and contradicting early impressions that the wrongdoing was confined to a handful of members of the military police on the prison 's night shift . '' 
Since the widespread outrage over the photographs from Abu_Ghraib prison in Iraq , Americans have seemingly ceased to care . 
Beyond the scandal at Abu_Ghraib and the trial of Mr. Hussein , the system of holding and prosecuting detainees in Iraq has largely escaped public scrutiny . 
Within the C.I.A. and the military , concern about possible repercussions against interrogators has increased since 2004 , when disclosure of the abuses at Abu_Ghraib prison in Iraq and elsewhere prompted a tightening of the guidelines on interrogation . 
Interrogators at Abu_Ghraib prison in Iraq gave the military police orders to '' soften up '' or give harsh treatment to detainees in the weeks leading up to the night that a group of soldiers put naked and hooded prisoners in sexually humiliating positions and photographed them , several soldiers and a detainee testified in a military court here on Wednesday . 
Senior Pentagon officials have opposed the release of photographs and videotapes of the abuse of detainees at Abu_Ghraib prison in Iraq , arguing that they would incite public opinion in the Muslim world and put the lives of American soldiers and officials at risk , according to documents unsealed in federal court in New_York . 
What makes Amnesty 's gulag metaphor apt is that Guantánamo is merely one of a chain of shadowy detention camps that also includes Abu_Ghraib in Iraq , the military prison at Bagram_Air_Base in Afghanistan and other , secret locations run by the intelligence agencies . 
The system for processing , interrogating and detaining prisoners at Abu_Ghraib and elsewhere in Iraq was dangerously out of control , and the command structure responsible for it had collapsed . 
Mr. Hersh , who has uncovered information about the Abu_Ghraib prison scandal in Iraq and the My_Lai massacre in Vietnam , said he was once ordered at City News to cover a fire in a manhole . 
Only one occurred in Abu_Ghraib prison in Iraq , which has been known until now as the site of the most extensive abuses by American military personnel . 
The Department of Defense 's own investigation concluded that this technique migrated from Guantánamo to Iraq and Abu_Ghraib . 
The Abu_Ghraib torture scandal is dealt with here , along with the United_States invasion of Iraq and problems at the C.I.A. . There is even a drawing about watching the funeral of Yasir_Arafat on television . 
Hersh , the veteran investigative reporter who broke the My_Lai massacre story in 1969 , explores America 's road to war in Iraq and how Bush administration decisions led to violating human rights in Abu_Ghraib . 
The deaths took place nearly a year before the abuses at Abu_Ghraib prison in Iraq . 
A Foreign Ministry spokesman said it had learned that the men were being held in Abu_Ghraib after making a routine request for a list of Turkish nationals held in Iraq . 
After referring to Abu_Ghraib in Iraq and the prison at Guantánamo_Bay , Cuba , he wrote : '' I have no doubt that the American people do not approve of this behavior and indeed deplore it . '' 
Mr. McCain 's measure would establish the Army Field Manual as the uniform standard for the interrogation of prisoners and ban the kind of abusive treatment of prisoners that was revealed in the Abu_Ghraib prison scandal in Iraq . '' 
Pundits in India deplore , often gleefully , American excesses in Guantánamo_Bay and Abu_Ghraib , and the inadequacies of the American news media in the run-up to the war in Iraq . 
Meanwhile , many of the Bagram interrogators , led by the same operations officer , Capt. Carolyn A. Wood , were redeployed to Iraq and in July 2003 took charge of interrogations at the Abu_Ghraib prison . 
Maj. Gen. Geoffrey D. Miller , who commanded detention operations at Guantánamo_Bay , Cuba , and helped organize the interrogation process at Abu_Ghraib prison in Iraq , retired from the military on Monday , Pentagon officials said . 
Although an opponent of the Iraq war , he reminds his French audience that the behavior of the American government and the American press during the Abu_Ghraib scandal looks like a model of responsiveness and transparency compared to the French response to the torture of Algerians . 
In the three weeks after company arrived in Iraq on Feb. 1 , the Third Platoon made 25 convoy runs all across the hostile Sunni Triangle , with a dozen of those to Abu_Ghraib . '' 
Abu_Ghraib is a graduate-level training ground for the insurgency , '' said an American commander in Iraq . 
Another case still under investigation by the military and the Central Intelligence Agency involves the death in 2003 of a prisoner , Manadel al-Jamadi , who had been in C.I.A. custody at Abu_Ghraib prison in Iraq . 
But as you point out , no high-ranking officers or policy makers have been prosecuted for the appalling abuses at Abu_Ghraib prison in Iraq . 
A federal judge in New_York told the Defense Department yesterday that it would have to release perhaps dozens of photographs taken by an American soldier of Iraqi detainees in the Abu_Ghraib prison in Iraq . 
The military justice system , meanwhile , has won convictions against a number of soldiers in cases from Abu_Ghraib and elsewhere in Iraq and Afghanistan . 
Next to the scandal of prisoner abuse at Abu_Ghraib , no other aspect of the American military presence in Iraq has caused such widespread dismay and anger among Iraqis , judging by their frequent outbursts on the subject . 
While Americans recall memorable images of Vietnam taken by war photographers , the most memorable images of Iraq -- the prisoners of Abu_Ghraib -- were snapped by soldiers , she said . 
As Mr. Rumsfeld presses his transformation agenda , he still confronts bruised relations with lawmakers and even some in the administration over Iraq policy and the fallout from the Abu_Ghraib prisoner-abuse scandal . 
But those same insiders said that in retrospect Mr. Cheney 's power was at its peak in 2003 and 2004 , before Iraq 's insurgency flared , before the abuses at Abu_Ghraib were revealed , before the setbacks in Congress and at the Supreme Court . 
Then read Mr. Lieberman 's May 2004 op-ed article in The_Wall_Street_Journal , '' Let Us Have Faith , '' in which he urged Mr. Rumsfeld not to resign over the Abu_Ghraib scandal , because his removal '' would delight foreign and domestic opponents of America 's presence in Iraq . '' 
U.S. to Quit Abu_Ghraib The American military in Iraq will move all detainees out of Abu_Ghraib to a new facility yet to be built , and will turn the dreaded prison , site of the American abuse scandal , over to the new Iraqi government . 
Those interrogators and others from Bagram were later sent to Iraq and were assigned to Abu_Ghraib prison . 
A federal judge in Manhattan ruled yesterday that the Defense Department must release dozens of withheld photographs and videotapes that show abuse of prisoners at Abu_Ghraib prison in Iraq , rejecting an argument by top military officials that publishing the images would endanger American troops . '' 
In response to the prisoner-abuse scandal at Abu_Ghraib , the Army is taking lessons learned from combat zones to train its security forces and those from the Navy and Air Force for guard duty at American detention centers in Iraq , Afghanistan and Guantánamo_Bay , Cuba . 
The public still considers the military one of the most trusted American institutions , according to analysts and military surveys , despite mounting opposition to the war in Iraq , murky prospects for its outcome and the scandal surrounding the torture of prisoners at Abu_Ghraib . 
We fear it will take a lot more than the trials of a few low-level prison guards to repair the damage , whether from Abu_Ghraib , Guantánamo , the secret prisons or the whole mismanaged Iraq war . 
Former and current intelligence officials say the action occurred nearly four months before a wider pattern of abuse at Abu_Ghraib prison in Iraq became publicly known . 
The first group of trainees from the Kings_County program was called up in March to serve at the Abu_Ghraib prison hospital in Iraq . '' 
, leading -LRB- like a character 's tragic flaw in an ancient drama -RRB- to the mindless invasion and occupation of Iraq ; the imprisonment without trial of thousands of so-called terror suspects , who were denied the right to protest their innocence or confront their accusers ; the now-infamous torture memo from the Justice Department ; the abuses at Abu_Ghraib ; the reprehensible practice of rendition , in which individuals are kidnapped by U.S. officials and handed over to 
-LRB- '' The public has a right to know the full truth about the treatment of detainees not just in Abu_Ghraib but elsewhere in Iraq , Afghanistan and Guantánamo_Bay , '' she said in a release this month , after new photographs of abuse at the Abu_Ghraib prison were made public . -RRB- 
While some military police officers charged with abusing detainees at the Abu_Ghraib prison in Iraq have tried a similar tactic , which so far has proved unsuccessful , their cases are being handled in courts-martial . 
A11 Guantánamo Leader Retires Maj. Gen. Geoffrey D. Miller , left , who commanded detention operations at Guantánamo_Bay , Cuba , and helped organize the interrogation process at Abu_Ghraib prison in Iraq , retired from the military , officials said . 
The Army plans to charge Lt. Col. Steven L. Jordan , the former head of the interrogation center at Abu_Ghraib prison in Iraq , with dereliction of duty , lying to investigators and conduct unbecoming an officer , Army officials and a lawyer for the officer said on Tuesday . 
He , in turn , offered some of his most direct comments about where he contended United_States operations in Iraq had gone wrong , saying that perhaps training of Iraqi police officers should have started earlier , that the Iraqi military was initially unprepared for threats from within its borders and that prisoner abuse at Abu_Ghraib was disgraceful . 
About the only high-ranking officer whose career has suffered over Abu_Ghraib is Lt. Gen. Ricardo Sanchez , who was the commander in Iraq at the time . 
National Guardsmen from Arkansas , now in Iraq , disarm roadside bombs and discuss the Abu_Ghraib scandal . 
He made the ultimate sacrifice and admitted his administration had messed up , something he 'd refused to do through all of the other screw-ups , from phantom W.M.D. and the torture at Abu_Ghraib and Guantánamo to the miscalculations on the Iraq occupation and the insurgency , which will soon claim 2,000 young Americans . 
We had a lot of discussions this year because of the Abu_Ghraib photos and the coffin pictures '' of United_States soldiers returning from Iraq , said the Argentine photographer Diego Goldberg , the chairman of this year 's jury . 
In a string of accusations introducing the organization 's annual report in London , Irene_Khan , Amnesty 's secretary general , listed the abuse of detainees at Abu_Ghraib prison in Iraq , the detention of prisoners at Guantánamo_Bay , Cuba , and the so-called rendition of prisoners to countries known to practice torture as evidence that the United_States '' thumbs its nose at the rule of law and human rights . '' 
A spokesman for the American military in Iraq declined to comment , saying it would violate the Geneva Conventions to disclose the identity of prisoners in any of the Abu_Ghraib photographs , just as it would to discuss the reasons behind Mr. Qaissi 's detention . 
The administration disavowed the memorandum last year after its disclosure led to charges that it helped open the door to abuses at Abu_Ghraib prison in Iraq and elsewhere . 
That record is in contrast to the public scrutiny that the Congressional armed services committees have imposed on the military 's involvement in interrogation and detention , including the abuses at Abu_Ghraib prison in Iraq . 
Mr. Wilkerson has also attacked the Bush administration for allegedly condoning torture and setting lax policies on treatment of detainees that led , he charges , to the abuses at Abu_Ghraib prison in Iraq and the black eye they gave to the United_States_Army . 
Col. Thomas_Pappas , the former intelligence chief at Abu_Ghraib , testified at the dog handler 's trial that the use of dogs had grown out of conversations he had had with military jailers from Guantánamo_Bay led by Maj. Gen. Geoffrey Miller , who had been sent to Iraq to instruct soldiers there in the interrogation techniques refined at Gitmo under Mr. Rumsfeld 's torture-is-legal policy . 
And why do the media focus on Abu_Ghraib , perpetrated by '' people on the night shift , one night shift in Iraq ? '' 
Pitiless himself , he sent hundreds of thousands of his countrymen to miserable deaths , in the wars he started against Iran and Kuwait , in the torture chambers of his secret police , or on the gallows that became an industry at Abu_Ghraib and other charnel houses across Iraq . 
Commanders in Iraq have said that word of abuses at Abu_Ghraib did not reach them . 
General Craddock had been a candidate for the Iraq job last year , but was sent to the Southern Command instead , in part because of concern that although he had no role in Abu_Ghraib , his service under Mr. Rumsfeld at the time of the abuses would make him a target for opposition from the Senate . 
As Eric_Schmitt wrote in The_Times : '' Barring new evidence , the inquiry by the Army 's inspector general effectively closes the Army 's book on whether the highest-ranking officers in Iraq during the Abu_Ghraib prison scandal should be held accountable for command failings described in past reviews . '' 
Mr. Díaz , an information technology manager for a New_Jersey chemical company , lives in Rutherford , N.J. , and writes wherever and whenever : using a notebook in a bouncy Humvee in a convoy in Iraq , using a recorder in a car on the Garden State Parkway , punching poem fragments into his cellphone when he was floored by the differences between New_York and Abu_Ghraib , where he was stationed for nine months in 2004 . '' 
Barring new evidence , the inquiry , by the Army 's inspector general , effectively closes the Army 's book on whether the highest-ranking officers in Iraq during the Abu_Ghraib prison scandal should be held accountable for command failings described in past reviews . 
One United_States military dog handler was recently convicted of abusing detainees at Abu_Ghraib , the prison in Iraq , and the court-martial of another is to start in May . 
The solution , he said , is to recruit more of Iraq 's unemployed into the army and police , and '' clean '' the areas that have caused the most trouble , like Abu_Ghraib , Adhamiya and Ghazaliya . 
But thousands of pages in military reports and documents released under the Freedom of Information Act to the American_Civil_Liberties_Union in the past few months have demonstrated that the abuse involved multiple service branches in Afghanistan , Iraq and Cuba , beginning in 2002 and continuing after Congress and the military had begun investigating Abu_Ghraib . 
Right now we are paying for all the Bush team 's missteps in Iraq : allowing looting after the fall of Baghdad , disbanding the Iraqi Army without an alternative security force or enough U.S. troops in place , fostering a culture of torture at Abu_Ghraib and then letting the politics in Iraq drift for months without any outcome . 
The Peabody given to the Wednesday edition of '' 60 Minutes '' honored an exclusive story , produced by Mary Mapes and reported by Dan_Rather , about the abuses at Abu_Ghraib prison in Iraq . 
As events in Iraq , from the fighting of the war to Abu_Ghraib , have shown , sometimes we get it right and sometimes we get it wrong . 
The cases became public in April 2004 , with reports about abuses at Abu_Ghraib prison in Iraq and have led to the convictions of Pvt. Charles A. Graner Jr. , Pfc . 
Citizen John_Ashcroft '' assembles the face of the former attorney general from images of naked bodies at Abu_Ghraib , the prison in Iraq . 
And for much of Mr. Bush 's first term , the senator had a reputation as one of the few Republicans who would publicly criticize the administration , on issues like Mr. Bush 's tax cut proposals , the Abu_Ghraib prison torture scandal and the administration 's postwar planning in Iraq . 
ALI SHALA QAISSI , whose torture at Abu_Ghraib prison in Iraq was depicted in a photograph that drew worldwide attention . 
As for any links to the abuses at Abu_Ghraib , the report said the subcontractors had either left Iraq before the abuses occurred or they did not supervise military personnel stationed at the prison who were accused of abusing prisoners . 
The Pentagon has promoted or nominated for promotion two senior Army officers who oversaw or advised detention and interrogation operations in Iraq during the height of the Abu_Ghraib prisoner-abuse scandal . 
From January 2004 to January 2005 , I served in various places in Iraq -LRB- including Abu_Ghraib -RRB- as an Army interrogator . 
Intelligence officials have also acknowledged that the C.I.A. 's inspector general is reviewing the conduct of other C.I.A. officers in Iraq and Afghanistan , in episodes that included the death at Abu_Ghraib in November 2003 of an Iraqi prisoner who had been in C.I.A. custody , and whose body was wrapped in plastic and packed in ice before it was removed from the facility . 
Some of the 600 listeners at the university complained that her call for freedom was undercut by American indifference to Israeli '' war crimes , '' mistreatment of prisoners at Guantánamo_Bay , Cuba , and Abu_Ghraib and the continuing violence in Iraq . 
In the interview , Mr. Rumsfeld exhibited a trademark mix , by turns combative and introspective , as he deflected questions of how history would weigh the troubled aftermath of invading Iraq -- particularly the Abu_Ghraib scandal -- against the changes he is still pressing . '' 
Lynndie R. England , the defendant , holding her 7-month-old baby ; the imprisoned father , Pvt. Charles A. Graner Jr. , giving testimony that ruined what lawyers said was her best shot at leniency ; and waiting outside , another defendant from the notorious abuses at Abu_Ghraib prison in Iraq , Megan M. Ambuhl , who had recently wed Private Graner -- a marriage Private England learned about only days before . 
General Fast served in Iraq from July 2003 to June 2004 as the intelligence deputy for General Sanchez , and she played an extensive role in developing policies and practices for the interrogation center at Abu_Ghraib . 
I think there have been 10 such investigations launched -- major investigations launched by the Department of Defense , '' Mr. McClellan said of the reports conducted since the abuses at Abu_Ghraib prison in Iraq came to light a year ago . '' 
In the aftermath of Abu_Ghraib and reports of other abuses by American troops , Pentagon and military officials acknowledged that such behavior could severely damage the American war effort in Iraq . '' 
Last May , the C.I.A. 's inspector general opened an inquiry into the agency 's role in brutal interrogations of prisoners at Abu_Ghraib and other prisons in Iraq . 
